What is claimed is: 1. 1. A photovoltaic device having a substrate configuration, comprising:
a substrate,
said substrate being transparent or opaque,
a metal electrode layer,
a transparent conductor layer,
an absorber layer,
said absorber layer comprises a Group II-VI semiconductor compound,
a window layer, and
an interface layer, wherein
the interface layer is disposed between the metal electrode layer and the absorber layer such that an ohmic contact is created between the metal electrode layer and the absorber layer.
2. 2. A photovoltaic device according claim 1, wherein:
said absorber layer comprises a CdTe semiconductor.
3. 3. A photovoltaic device according claim 2, wherein:
said window layer comprises a CdS semiconductor.
4. 4. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises a material selected from the group consisting of nanoparticles, nanoparticles that are sintered and a thin film.
5. 5. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 4, wherein:
the nanoparticles, nanoparticles that are sintered and a thin film each independently comprise a material selected from the group consisting of Group II-IV compounds, Group IV-VI compounds, Group IV compounds, Group III-V compounds and Group I-III-VI compounds.
6. 6. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 5, wherein:
the nanoparticles, nanoparticles that are sintered and a thin film independently comprise a material selected from the group consisting of CuxTe where 1≦x≦2, ZnTe, p doped ZnTe, CdxTey where x≠y, Cu doped CdTe, CdZnTe, Sb2Te3, Bi2Te3 and Te metal.
7. 7. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 6, wherein:
the nanoparticles, nanoparticles that are sintered and a thin film independently comprise a material selected from the group consisting of CdxTey where x>y and Cu doped ZnTe.
8. 8. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises a plurality of layers.
9. 9. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises a plurality of layers,
said plurality of layers comprising a first layer comprising p-doped ZnTe nanoparticles,
and a second layer comprising ZnTe nanoparticles.
10. 10. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 9, wherein:
the interface layer further comprises a third layer comprising Te metal nanoparticles disposed between the second layer comprising ZnTe nanoparticles and the absorber layer.
11. 11. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
said interface layer comprises a plurality of layers,
said plurality of layers comprises a first layer comprising CuxTe where 1≦x≦2 nanoparticles,
and a second layer comprising ZnTe nanoparticles.
12. 12. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 11, wherein:
the interface layer further comprises a third layer disposed between the second layer and the absorber layer,
said third layer comprising a material selected from the group consisting of Te metal nanoparticles, CdxTey where x≠y nanoparticles and CdZnTe nanoparticles.
13. 13. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises at least three layers, wherein
a first interface layer comprises Cd1−xZnxTe nanoparticles where x=0,
a second interface layer comprises Cd1−xZnxTe nanoparticles that are sintered where x≠0, and
a third interface layer in between the first and second interface layer said layer comprising Cd1−xZnxTe nanoparticles that are sintered where 0≦x≦1.
14. 14. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises a plurality of layers,
said plurality of layers comprises a first layer comprising p-doped ZnTe nanoparticles that are sintered,
and a second layer comprising ZnTe nanoparticles that are sintered.
15. 15. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 14, wherein:
the interface layer further comprises a third layer comprising Te metal nanoparticles that are sintered disposed between the second layer comprising ZnTe nanoparticles that are sintered and the absorber layer.
16. 16. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
said interface layer comprises a plurality of layers,
said plurality of layers comprises a first layer comprising a CuxTe where 1≦x≦2 nanoparticles that are sintered, and
a second layer comprising ZnTe nanoparticles that are sintered.
17. 17. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 16, wherein:
the interface layer further comprises a third layer disposed between the second layer and the absorber layer,
said third layer comprises a material selected from the group consisting of Te metal nanoparticles that are sintered, CdxTey where x≠y nanoparticles that are sintered and CdZnTe nanoparticles that are sintered.
18. 18. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises at least three layers, wherein
a first interface layer comprises Cd1−xZnxTe nanoparticles that are sintered where x=0,
a second interface layer comprises Cd1−xZnxTe nanoparticles that are sintered where x≠0, and
a third interface layer in between the first and second interface layer said layer comprising Cd1−xZnxTe nanoparticles that are sintered where 0≦x≦1.
19. 19. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises a plurality of layers,
said plurality of layers comprises a first layer comprising a p-doped ZnTe thin film, and
a second layer comprising ZnTe thin film.
20. 20. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 19, wherein:
the interface layer further comprises a third layer comprising a Te metal thin film disposed between the second layer comprising a ZnTe thin film and the absorber layer.
21. 21. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
said interface layer comprises a plurality of layers,
said plurality of layers comprises a first layer comprising a CuxTe where 1≦x≦2 thin film, and
a second layer comprising a ZnTe thin film.
22. 22. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 21, wherein:
the interface layer further comprises a third layer disposed between the second layer and the absorber layer,
said third layer comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a Te metal thin film, a CdxTey where x≠y thin film, and a CdZnTe thin film.
23. 23. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein:
the interface layer comprises at least three layers, wherein
a first interface layer comprises a Cd1−xZnxTe thin film where x=0,
a second interface layer comprises a Cd1−xZnxTe thin film where x≠0, and
a third interface layer in between the first and second interface layer,
said layer comprising a Cd1−xZnxTe thin film where 0≦x≦1.
24. 24. A photovoltaic device having a superstrate configuration, comprising:
a substrate,
said substrate being transparent,
a metal electrode layer,
a transparent conductor layer,
an absorber layer,
said absorber layer comprising a Group II-VI semiconductor compound,
a window layer, and
an interface layer comprising nanoparticles or nanoparticles that are sintered, and
the interface layer is disposed between the metal electrode layer and the absorber layer such that an ohmic contact is created between the metal electrode layer and the absorber layer.
25. 25. A photovoltaic device as claimed in claim 24, wherein:
the nanoparticles or nanoparticles that are sintered independently comprise a material selected from the group consisting of CuxTe where 1≦x≦2, ZnTe, p doped ZnTe, CdxTey where x≠y, Cu doped CdTe, CdZnTe, Sb2Te3, Bi2Te3 and Te metal.


